Hey Cloud Gurus in this
lesson we're going to talk about
the terminology we need to know before using IDS.
So the first one is going to be database instance,
this is the basic building block of Amazon RDS
a database instance is an isolated
database environment in the cloud.
A database instance can contain multiple
user-created databases that you can access
by using the same tools and applications
that you use the stand alone database.
You can create modify a database instance
by using AWS CLI the AWS RDS API
or management console.
The database engine type.
The database engine type is the type
of database you would like to run.
The options available are MySQL, MariaDB,
PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQL server,
and Aurora database engines.
The database instance class.
The database instance class is similar
to the EC2 instance type and it determines
the CPU and Memory capacity of your database.
For example this one would be db.m4.large
which is essentially running your database
on an m4 large.
Multi AZ also known as high availability.
Within a region you can have
multiple availability zones.
An availability zone is a physically isolated
distinct independent infrastructure.
When a database says multi AZ it means the database
will be hosted in two availability zones
to provide a high availability
a primary note will be in one AZ
and the secondary will be in another AZ.
In the case of one availability failing
over you can rely on the second one
to be there to handle your traffic.
Read replicas
A read replica is a node which is part of a
database instance which handles only read queries.
The idea here is that the operation is sent
to a database of mostly queries and hence
a read replica can offload a significant
amount of traffic from your primary host.
Primary host.
The primary host is the node within
the database instance which handles
all the read and write traffic.
When you have read replicas,
some of the read traffic can be offloaded.
Secondary host or a StandBy host.
The secondary host is the node within
the database that is synchronously updated,
but is not actively handling write traffic
directly from your application.
It serves as a redundancy layer in case of failover.
Aurora
Amazon Aurora is a MySQL and PostgreSQL
compatible relational database built for the Cloud.
Amazon has simply taken the open source databases
and swapped out the lowest storage and logging layers
to adapt them to be more cloud native.
We'll take a deeper look into Aurora later in this course.